---
title: 微视频作业：都江堰与加尔水道桥
date: 2022-02-24 11:32:06
tags:
- 加尔水道桥
- 都江堰
categories:
- 课程作业
---

英语选修课《欧洲文化概况》的课程作业。

<!-- more -->


# 脚本
Dujiangyan is located on the Min River, the longest tributary of the Yangtze, in the west of Chengdu Plain in Sichuan Province. It is the oldest and only surviving large-scale hydraulic engineering in the world and is still in use today. The Pont du Gardon, located on the northeast of Nimes, is the largest and the highest elevated surviving Roman aqueduct in the world. Dujiangyan and Pont du Gard are the world-famous Water Projects in a period of human history. The first one is the classic of Oriental traditional agricultural society and the second one is the pattern of intelligence of western civilization. The collision and fusion between the China and the West in farming culture emphasis on the point of harmony with nature and avatar the sagacity of the ancient labouring people.<br />More than 2,000 years ago, Li Bing, the governor of Shu County in the Qin Dynasty, and his son, mobilized working people to build Dujiangyan Water Project with the basis of its predecessor meeting the farm water needs. Dujiangyan Water Project exploited the potential of striking terrain. It is long and narrow, higher in the northwestern part, lower in the southeastern region. With the benefits of special terrain and flow of water, it could guarantee the dominance of flood alert, irrigation, water transport and drinking water.<br />Both in design and construction, Dujiangyan Water Project embodies the wisdom of the ancient Chinese working people. Although the Spring and Autumn Period is a term which is absent in modern science, Dujiangyan Water Project’s layout and style are exquisite and reasonable, successfully solving the matter for irrigation. The Fish Mouth Levee, named for its conical head that is said to resemble the mouth of a fish, is the key part of the construction. It is an artificial levee that divides the water into inner and outer streams. While during flood, this amount decreases to 40% to protect the people from flooding. The Flying Sand Weir has a 200-meter-wide opening that connects the inner and outer streams. This ensures against flooding by allowing the natural swirling flow of the water to drain out excess water from the inner to the outer stream. The Bottle-Neck Channel, which was gouged through the mountain, is the final part of the system. The channel distributes the water to the farmlands in the Chengdu Plain, whilst the narrow entrance, that gives it its name, works as a check gate. <br />Thus, it not only controlled the Min River floods, but also made full use of the water resources. These are highly reflected the wisdom of ancient Chinese water conservancy ecological civilization. Dujiangyan Water Project has been playing a role in flood control and irrigation for many years, making Chengdu plain a "god's country ". <br />The writer Qiuyu YU was conquered by Dujiangyan: "If the Great Wall occupied vast space, then Dujiangyan actually occupied a vast distance in time."  Originally constructed around 256 BC, Dujiangyan Water Project, transcending time and space, is still standing on the Ming River wholeheartedly serving the people. It is a apotheosis of human-water harmony, composing the eternal glorious chapter of river civilization. <br />More than 100 years after the Dujiangyan Water Project was built and come on     stream, Roman architects built the Pont du Gard in where is now called Nimes, the region of Southern France. The Pont du Gard comprises three layers, with water flowing through the ground floor and people passing through the top floor. The bridge is made from Shelly limestone and stands 48.8 meters high. Its structure is rigorous and imposing, which is the crystallization of the wisdom of ancient Roman. Utilizing modern bridge construction technology, it would take years to build such a 50-kilometer aqua bridge. However, the construction of the Pont du Gard took only five years, which shows that the Romans were skilled in hydraulic engineering at that time.<br />As a high-altitude aqueduct during the Roman Empire, it bridged the Kal River and conveyed water to Nimes, where it is distributed to public bathhouses and private residences. It is said that about 20,000 cubic meters of water was supplied to Nimes every day, giving its inhabitants tap water 2,000 years ago and up to five centuries. It has made an important contribution to Roman civilization and healthy living conditions.<br />The bridge symbolizes the wisdom of the entire ancient Roman and reflects the extraordinary workmanship of the ancient Roman architects and hydraulic engineers. It is not only a technology, but also an art and a milestone of Roman culture.<br />Both Dujiangyan and Pont du Gard embody the ancient highly prosperous water conservancy engineering technology and the wisdom of the working people. Looking back to the past, we should learn from the ancients' illumination of the" harmony of heaven and man" and attach great importance to the protection of the ecological environment, respect nature, conform to nature, protect nature, and positively realize the harmonious coexistence between man and nature.
<a name="cQ5OS"></a>

# 视频成片
**视频已上传到哔哩哔哩：**  

<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-bottom: 75%;">
    <iframe src="//player.bilibili.com/player.html?aid=551757114&bvid=BV1qi4y127Da&cid=515766576&page=1"  scrolling="no" border="0" frameborder="no" framespacing="0" allowfullscreen="true" style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; left: 0; top: 0;"></iframe>  
</div>
 

本视频由小组合作完成。
  
> 视频的素材来源于哔哩哔哩和Youtube等。剪辑软件使用Pr、瞄影工厂。使用[Arctime Pro](https://arctime.org/)添加字幕。
 
